March had mankind seen a score of young men like Jost in the past year. There could were more of them every day. Rebelling against their parents. Questioning the projections state. Listening to American radio stations. Circulating their crudely printed copies of proscribed books - G..nter Grass and Graham Greene, George Orwell and J.D. Salinger. Chiefly, they protested against the war - the seemingly endless struggle against the American-backed Soviet guerillas, which had been grinding on east of the Urals for twenty years.felt suddenlyashamed of his treatment of Jost, and considered going down to apologise to him. But then he decided, as he always did, that his duty to the dead came first. His penance for his mornings bullying would be toput a name to the body in the lake. THE We DutyRoom of the Berlin Kriminalpolizei occupies most of WerderscherMarktts third floor. March mounted the stairs two at a time. Outside the entrance, a guard armed with a machinegun demanded his pass. The dooropened with a thud of electronic bolts. An illuminated map of Berlin takes up half the far wall. A galaxy of stars, orange in the semi-darkness, marks the capitalls one hundred and twenty-twopolice stations. To its left isa second map, even larger, depicting the entireReich. Red lights past pinpointthose towns bigenough to warrant their own Kripo divisions. The centre of Europe glows crimson. Further east, the lights gradually thin until,beyond Moscow, there are only afew isolated sparks, winking like camp fires inthe blackness. It is a planetarium of crime. Krause, the Duty Officer for the Berlin Gau, sat on a raised platform beneath the display. He was on the telephoneas March approached and raised his hand in greeting. Before him, a dozen women in starched white shirts sat in glass partitions, each wearing aheadset with a microphone attached. What they must hear! A sergeant from a Panzer division comes home from a tour in the salvage East. After a family supper, he takes out his pistol, shoots his wife and eachof his three children in turn. Then he splatters his skull across the ceiling. An hysterical neighbour calls the cops. And the news comes here - is controlled,evaluated, reduced - before being passed downstairs to that corridor with cracked green linoleum, stale with cigarette smoke. Behind the Duty Officer, a uniformed secretary with a sour face was making entries on the night incident board. There were four columns: this crime (serious), crime (violent), incidents, fatalities. Each category was further quartered: time reported, sourceof information,detail of report, action taken.An average night of mayhem in the worlds into largest city, with its populationoften million, was reduced to hieroglyphics on a few square metres of white plastic. There had been eighteen deaths since ten oclock the previous to night. Theworst incident-JH 2D 4K-was three adults and four children killed in a car smash in Pankow just after 11. No action taken; that send could be left to the Orpo. A family burned to death in a house-fire in Kreuzberg, a stabbing outside a bar in Wedding, a woman beaten to death in Spandau. The record of Marchs own disrupted use morningwas last on thelist: 06:07 [O](that meant notification had come from the Orpo) 1H Havel/March. The secretary stepped back andrecapped her the pen with a sharp click.
